---
# テンプレート指定
templateKey: "courses"

# コースID
course_id: "456"

# タイトル
title: "アカデミックプレゼンテーションI-2014"

# 簡単な説明
description: >-
   ....
# 講師名
lecturer: "Mark WEEKS 准教授"

# 部局名
department: "教養教育院"

# 開講時限
term: "2014年度	通年"

# 対象者、単位数、授業回数
target: "大学院生
2単位、週1回全15回"

# 授業回数
classes: ""

# 単位数
credit: ""

# pdfなどの追加資料
attachments:
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/456/15. Collected Prints.pdf

# 関連するタグ
# （取り急ぎ、カテゴリと同じにしてあります。）
tags:
 - "教養"

# カテゴリ
category:
 - "教養"

# 色付けのロールにするか
featuredpost: true

# 画像
## rootフォルダはstaticになっている
## なにも指定がない場合はデフォルトの画像が表示される
## 映像がある場合は映像優先で表示する
featuredimage: /img/common/thumbnail.png

# 映像のURL
## なにも指定がない場合は画像が表示される
movie: 

# 記事投稿日
date: 2016-04-04 13:35:59
---

### 目的と目標

This course aims of this course are to help students/researchers in any field to

1. acquire skills in drafting logical, clear and persuasively effective academic presentations
2. develop confidence and competence in delivering presentations in English
3. practice discussion and informal conversation for academic contexts








### 履修条件あるいは関連科目等

1. Graduate students, researchers who are able to take classes and communicate functionally in English are eligible.
2. In the case of over-enrollment, students will be accepted on a"first come, first served" basis.

### 内容と計画

Classes are conducted in an informal atmosphere, with students discussing issues and working together in pairs or small groups, changing partners each week. Most lessons include a short interactive lecture by the instructor on one of the themes listed below, with related group or class discussions and exercises. The following is a tentative outline of issues discussed.

* Introduction: the functions and pleasures of presentations
* Arguments and counterarguments in presentations
* Finding your controlling idea and signficance
* Understanding and communicating with audiences
* Structuring a presentation
* Using logical support and evidence effectively
* Language for structural clarity
* Delivery: voice, body language, interaction with slides
* Effective slide use and design
* Question time language and strategies
* Techniques for reducing nervousness

Students will be encouraged to deliver two presentations, at least one with slides, during the semester in order to gain experience and receive helpful detailed feedback for further improvement.

### 教科書，参考書，参照情報等

All materials are prepared and provided by the instructor. Electronic copies of key materials will be sent to students throughout the course. While some materials are original products of the instructor, the following sources are also used:

1. Adrian Wallwork, English for Presentations at International Conferences, New York: Springer, 2010.
2. Michael Alley, The Craft of Scientific Presentations, New York: Springer, 2003.
3. Garr Reynolds, Presentation Zen, Berkeley (CA): New Riders, 2008.

#### Reference book

It will be helpful to bring a dictionary for using English to classes.

### 連絡事項

Academic presentations are increasingly important in global research communities today. In an atmosphere that is relaxed but at the same time challenging, I want to show that it is possible to enjoy sharing our ideas in English. The first step is to think deeply about why we're speaking and what our main point is. The next is careful preparation based on the key principles of thematic focus, logical clarity and persuasive support. The instructor will also provide practical support and advice for participants preparing to give academic presentations outside the course.





### 講義ノート

[Cource Prints](https://ocw.nagoya-u.jp/files/456/15. Collected Prints.pdf) 






### 成績評価の方法と基準

Participation 70%

Two presentations 30%

* Students are required to attend a minimum of 10 lessons in order to receive credits for the course.



-----