---
# テンプレート指定
templateKey: "courses"

# コースID
course_id: "528"

# タイトル
title: "英語-(基礎)"

# 簡単な説明
description: >-
  The objective of this course is to develop basic English reading and writing skills related to the s...

# 講師名
lecturer: "Chad NILEP"

# 部局名
department: "教養教育院"

# 開講時限
term: "2015年度	前期"

# 対象者、単位数、授業回数
target: "法学部
1単位、週1回全15回"

# 授業回数
classes: ""

# 単位数
credit: ""

# pdfなどの追加資料
attachments: 
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou01.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou03.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou04.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou05.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou06.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou08.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou10.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou11.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou12.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou13.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou14.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou07.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou02.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/528/siryou09.pdf

# 関連するタグ
tags:

# カテゴリ
category:
  - culture

# 色付けのロールにするか
featuredpost: true

# 画像
## rootフォルダはstaticになっている
## なにも指定がない場合はデフォルトの画像が表示される
## 映像がある場合は映像優先で表示する
featuredimage: /img/common/thumbnail.png

# 映像のURL
## なにも指定がない場合は画像が表示される
featuredmovie: 

# 記事投稿日
date: 2016-12-22 15:47:02
---

The objective of this course is to develop basic English reading and writing skills related to the study of university-level arts and sciences. The aim is to allow Nagoya University students to acquire the abilities appropriate for success in a research based university. Attention is given to paragraph structure as a key to logical text construction. For that reason, students learn about both reading for essential information as well as constructing convincing arguments in their own writing. Students broaden their abilities to read English materials, to write well organized paragraphs, and to use appropriate English expressions.

### 授業の工夫 Students read both extensively and intensively. For extensive reading, each student chooses books, magazines, news articles, or other material that interests her or him personally. Students read these materials every week, and write a journal to record how many pages they read, what new vocabulary they learned, and what ideas interested them. For intensive reading, students read one essay each week about world food ways, answer specific questions about this reading, and discuss that information in small groups. The writing process includes thinking, preparing, writing, and revising. Each week in class students write a paragraph during 15 minutes of timed writing. Students read one another&rsquo;s papers and comment on their form and clarity. Three of these paragraphs are revised on the basis of peer comments and then graded.



### 授業の内容 Students work on writing well-structured paragraphs and practice a writing process that includes preparing, writing, and revising to improve written work. Every week in class students practice writing a paragraph very quickly. Three of these paragraphs are rewritten and submitted for a grade. Students also read extensively outside of class in addition to reading in class. Students learn about world cultures by reading and writing about food ways. The course is taught entirely in English. Students are required to participate actively in class discussions and to write paragraphs in English. Grades are based not only on English language ability but also on control of writing forms such as proper topic sentences and paragraph structure. ### 教科書 Hungry Planet: What the World Eats. Peter Menzel, Faith D&rsquo;Aluiso, Tomoyuki Tsuruoka and Yoshiaki Sato. Shohakusha, ISBN 978-4-88198-601-1.



[Class introduction. Food in Australia](/files/528/siryou01.pdf) 



### 成績評価 Course grade is based on written assignments, a reading journal, self-study, and work in class including timed writing and group work.

