---
# テンプレート指定
templateKey: "courses"

# コースID
course_id: "529"

# タイトル
title: "英語-(中級)"

# 簡単な説明
description: >-
  本授業は、学術的な英文に関する基礎的なリーディング能力とライティング能力の養成を目的とする。そのねらいは、研究拠点大学である名古屋大学の学生にふさわしい学術英語を使いこなす能力を身につけるところにある...

# 講師名
lecturer: "Chad NILEP"

# 部局名
department: "教養教育院"

# 開講時限
term: "2015年度	後期"

# 対象者、単位数、授業回数
target: "理学部
1単位、週1回全15回"

# 授業回数
classes: ""

# 単位数
credit: ""

# pdfなどの追加資料
attachments: 
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials01.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials04.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials05.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials09.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials02.pdf
  - name: "" 
    path: /files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials03.pdf
  - name: "差し替え" 
    path: /files/529/new06.pdf
  - name: "差し替え" 
    path: /files/529/new07.pdf
  - name: "文字化けの修正" 
    path: /files/529/08

# 関連するタグ
tags:

# カテゴリ
category:
  - culture

# 色付けのロールにするか
featuredpost: true

# 画像
## rootフォルダはstaticになっている
## なにも指定がない場合はデフォルトの画像が表示される
## 映像がある場合は映像優先で表示する
featuredimage: /img/common/thumbnail.png

# 映像のURL
## なにも指定がない場合は画像が表示される
featuredmovie: 

# 記事投稿日
date: 2017-04-16 08:44:26
---

本授業は、学術的な英文に関する基礎的なリーディング能力とライティング能力の養成を目的とする。そのねらいは、研究拠点大学である名古屋大学の学生にふさわしい学術英語を使いこなす能力を身につけるところにある。論理的な英文のカギとなるエッセイの構造に着目し、目的に応じて必要な情報をいかに読み取るか、また逆に、自分の考えをその根拠とともにいかに説得力ある論理的な英文に組み立てるかを学ぶ。将来、専門の論文を英語で読んだり書いたりする時に、指針となる英文構文法の基礎、および実際に役立つ英語表現を多く習得する。

### 授業の工夫

Students read both extensively and intensively. For extensive reading, each student chooses books, magazines, news articles, or other materials that interest her or him personally. Students read these materials every week, and write a journal to record how many pages they read, what new vocabulary they learned, and what ideas interested them.

For intensive reading, students read one essay each week about basic scientific topics, answer specific questions about this reading, and discuss that information in small groups. Experiments or demonstrations in class are designed to deepen understanding of these topics. Students are then required to write essays or lab reports about selected topics.

Students work in groups to plan, present, and lead an activity related to one unit in the textbook. Each group chooses a unit and then designs a simulation, experiment, or other activity to help the rest of the class learn more about the unit&rsquo;s topic. After the group presents its activity, each group member writes a report describing the topic, the procedures of the presentation, and the goals of the activity.



### 授業の内容

This class focuses on English reading and writing. Students read articles and discuss them in class. They work in groups to give presentations. Students write two papers and read extensively outside of class.

The course is taught entirely in English. Students do not study about English; they use English as a tool to learn about scientific communication. Students are required to read, write, and speak English as much as possible.

### 教科書

Ian Bowring et alia (2014) Our Place in the Universe. Seibido. ISBN 978-4-7919-1015-1.

### 課題

Each week during class we will have some expansion activity. This may be a simulation, an experiment, a video, or some other activity to learn more about the week's topic.

Each time we do an expansion activity in class, you should keep notes. Write down what you did and what you figured out during the activity. Use English as much as you can.

Two times during the term you will write a paper. The paper will be based on one expansion activity and your notes about it. Choose one activity and write a one page report about it.

In the case of an experiment or simulation, be sure to include the purpose of the experiment, the procedures (what you did), the results, and the conclusions (what you learned by thinking about the results).

In the case of a presentation or video, be sure to include the theme or main point, the specific evidence given in support of the theme, and the conclusions. Explain what you learned from the video presentation.

### グループプレゼンテーション

One week during class you will plan and lead some expansion activity related to a unit in the textbook. Working with a group, you will choose a unit from the textbook and design a simulation, an experiment, or some other activity to help the class learn more about the unit's topic.

Choose a group of 7-9 students. With your group, choose one of the following units from the textbook. Then work together to design and plan an activity.

* Unit 2. Tides
* Unit 5. Climate modeling
* Unit 6. Dark Matter and Dark Energy
* Unit 9. The Hazards of Space Travel
* Unit 10. The Cassini-Huygens Mission to Saturn
* Unit 11. Space Junk
* Unit 12. Saving the Kakapo
* Unit 18. Lasers
* Unit 20. Keeping Us Alive for Longer
* Unit 21. Robots
* Unit 22. Plastics

Your activity should take about 45 minutes to one hour to complete. The rest of the time students will discuss the textbook.

After your group presents its activity, you will write a 1-2 page report about it. Be sure to include the topic, the procedures of the presentation (what you did or what you asked students in the class to do), and the goals of the activity (what you hope other students learned).

Also in your report, evaluate each member of the group. Write your name, how much time you spent working on the presentation, and what grade you think you deserve (S, A, B, or C). Then write the name of each member of your group and what grade you think she or he deserves.

Your grade is based on both the effectiveness of the group presentation and your report.



### 講義資料

<dl>
<dt>
No.1
</dt>

<dd>
[Impact craters. Using English as a tool.](/files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials01.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.2
</dt>

<dd>
[Great Pacific garbage patch. Paragraphs.](/files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials02.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.3
</dt>

<dd>
[Life in extreme environments. Writing lab reports.](/files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials03.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.4
</dt>

<dd>
[Birth of genetics. Plagiarism.](/files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials04.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.5
</dt>

<dd>
[Monarch butterfly migration. Writing essays.](/files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials05.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.6
</dt>

<dd>
[Natural selection. The writing process.](/files/529/new06.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.7
</dt>

<dd>
[Coral reefs. Logical argumentation.](/files/529/new07.pdf) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.8
</dt>

<dd>
[Rockets. Unity in writing.](/files/529/08) 
</dd>

<dt>
No.9
</dt>

<dd>
[Renewable energy. Public speaking techniques.](/files/529/OCW-Nilep-English_Intermediate-materials09.pdf) 
</dd>
</dl>



### 成績評価

Course grade is based on two written assignments, a group presentation, a reading journal, self-study, standardized test scores, and work in class.

