---
# テンプレート指定
templateKey: "courses"

# コースID
course_id: "687"

# タイトル
title: "数理科学展望III"

# 簡単な説明
description: >-
  【The Plan of the Course】Part 1 is scheduled to be 4/14, 4/21, 4/28, 5/12. 1. Review on aﬃne spaces....

# 講師名
lecturer: "山上滋"

# 部局名
department: "理学部／理学研究科"

# 開講時限
term: "2015年度	前期"

# 対象者、単位数、授業回数
target: "理学部数理学科4年"

# 授業回数
classes: ""

# 単位数
credit: ""

# pdfなどの追加資料
attachments: 
  - name: "山上先生「数理科学展望III」講義資料" 
    path: /files/687/symmetry-in-physics.pdf

# 関連するタグ
tags:

# カテゴリ
category:
  - culture

# 色付けのロールにするか
featuredpost: true

# 画像
## rootフォルダはstaticになっている
## なにも指定がない場合はデフォルトの画像が表示される
## 映像がある場合は映像優先で表示する
featuredimage: /img/common/thumbnail.png

# 映像のURL
## なにも指定がない場合は画像が表示される
featuredmovie: 

# 記事投稿日
date: 2019-02-22 10:28:02
---

【The Plan of the Course】Part 1 is scheduled to be 4/14, 4/21, 4/28, 5/12. 1. Review on aﬃne spaces. 2. Touch of projective spaces. 3. The fundamental theorem of projective geometry. 4. Wigner’s theorem on describing symmetry in quantum mechanics. 5. Alexandrov-Zeeman’s theorem on describing symmetry in special relativity.





### The Method of Evaluation Grading in this part is based on submitted reports on homeworks which will be assigned during the course. (No submission therefore means Nonattendance.) ### References Course notes will be provided at the ﬁrst lecture time or you can directly refer to the source papers below.
[1] C.-A. Faure, An elementary proof of the fundamental theorem of projective geometry, Geom. Dedicata, 90(2002), 145–151.
[2] P.G. Vroegindewey, An algebraic generalization of a theorem of E.C. Zeeman, Indagationes Mathematica, 77(1974), 77–81. ### The Plan of the Course Part 1 is scheduled to be 4/14, 4/21, 4/28, 5/12.
1. Review on aﬃne spaces. 2. Touch of projective spaces. 3. The fundamental theorem of projective geometry. 4. Wigner’s theorem on describing symmetry in quantum mechanics. 5. Alexandrov-Zeeman’s theorem on describing symmetry in special relativity. ### Keywords Projective geometry, aﬃne geometry, symmetry in physics. ### Required Knowledge Basic knowledge and skills in linear algebra and set theory. ### Attendance This course is open for all students in Nagoya University as a part of open subject program. Certain amount of experience in the set-theoretic framework of mathematics is required, however, to get beneﬁts from this part of the course. ### Additional Advice Use oﬃce hours (Wed, 13:00–14:00) as a substantial portion of courseworks.









