---
# テンプレート指定
templateKey: "courses"

# コースID
course_id: "687"

# タイトル
title: "数理科学展望III-2015"

# 簡単な説明
description: >-
  【The Plan of the Course】Part 1 is scheduled to be 4/14, 4/21, 4/28, 5/12. 1. Review on aﬃne spaces. 2. Touch of projective spaces. 3. The fundamental theorem of projective geometry. 4. Wigner’s theore ....
# 講師名
lecturer: "山上滋 教授"

# 部局名
department: "理学部／理学研究科"

# 開講時限
term: "2015年度	前期"

# 対象者、単位数、授業回数
target: "理学部数理学科4年"

# 授業回数
classes: ""

# 単位数
credit: ""

# pdfなどの追加資料
attachments:
  - name: "山上先生「数理科学展望III」講義資料" 
    path: /files/687/symmetry-in-physics.pdf

# 関連するタグ
# （取り急ぎ、カテゴリと同じにしてあります。）
tags:
 - "理学"

# カテゴリ
category:
 - "理学"

# 色付けのロールにするか
featuredpost: true

# 画像
## rootフォルダはstaticになっている
## なにも指定がない場合はデフォルトの画像が表示される
## 映像がある場合は映像優先で表示する
featuredimage: /img/common/thumbnail.png

# 映像のURL
## なにも指定がない場合は画像が表示される
movie: 

# 記事投稿日
date: 2020-04-18 23:33:14
---

### 授業の目的

In his celebrated Erlangen Program in 1872, F. Klein opened a way to synthesize geometric objects based on group symmetry. Since then the notion of group has been playing signiﬁcant roles in the study of various geometries. Among them, fundamental is the so-called projective geometry, which is intimately related to that of vector spaces. Interrelations of geometric positions of ﬂat objects such as lines and planes in Euclidean spaces are described most aesthetically in the framework of projective geometry. The fundamental theorem of projective geometry then states that the three-point collinearity is enough to recover the linear group structure behind them. Its importance is not just restricted within purely mathematical subjects and we shall review here, in quantum theory and special relativity, two fundamentals in physics, how their symmetries can be realized as linear groups as applications of the fundamental theorem.

### 授業の工夫

Symmetry is such a vast subject that its overall description requires lots of words. As a perspective course, I present here an interdisciplinary topic which ranges from geometry to algebra with physical backgrounds. It is just a tiny part of the subject but still provides good impetus to the typical way of thinking of symmetry.








### The Method of Evaluation
Grading in this part is based on submitted reports on homeworks which will be assigned during the course. (No submission therefore means Nonattendance.)

### References
Course notes will be provided at the ﬁrst lecture time or you can directly refer to the source papers below.<br>
[1] C.-A. Faure, An elementary proof of the fundamental theorem of projective geometry, Geom. Dedicata, 90(2002), 145–151.<br>
[2] P.G. Vroegindewey, An algebraic generalization of a theorem of E.C. Zeeman, Indagationes Mathematica, 77(1974), 77–81.

### The Plan of the Course
Part 1 is scheduled to be 4/14, 4/21, 4/28, 5/12. <br>
1. Review on aﬃne spaces. 2. Touch of projective spaces. 3. The fundamental theorem of projective geometry. 4. Wigner’s theorem on describing symmetry in quantum mechanics. 5. Alexandrov-Zeeman’s theorem on describing symmetry in special relativity.

### Keywords
Projective geometry, aﬃne geometry, symmetry in physics.

### Required Knowledge
Basic knowledge and skills in linear algebra and set theory.

### Attendance
This course is open for all students in Nagoya University as a part of open subject program. Certain amount of experience in the set-theoretic framework of mathematics is required, however, to get beneﬁts from this part of the course.

### Additional Advice
Use oﬃce hours (Wed, 13:00–14:00) as a substantial portion of courseworks.
















-----